1. Take notes on performance throughout the year.
When important things happen regarding an employee’s performance, you’ll want to take specific notes. Taking notes will help you accomplish several things.

It will make it clear that you’re paying attention during the entire year, not just during the months and weeks that lead up to the review. This helps prevent a culture of employees who are incentivized to work hard during the period just prior to reviews.

It will also give you specific examples to help you back up your points.

Finally, it gives you a chance to improve your overall performance evaluation process. If you take the time to note something, it probably means it’s important enough to give the employee a little feedback right then, so that they can improve, and you’re both on the same page come review time.

If you tell an employee that they need to improve in a certain area of the job, but can’t give examples, they may be skeptical or confused about exactly how they can improve.

2. Know what your goals are for the evaluation.
Go in knowing what you want to get out of the review.

3. Be honest and direct.
Don’t try to sugar-coat feedback. Be clear, honest, and straight-forward about things that need to change or improve.

4. Only make promises you can keep.
Talk to them about future possibilities, but be sure you have the power to make these things happen. Don’t set an employee expectation that you can’t follow through on.

5. Avoid making comparisons between employees.
This can breed unhealthy competition and resentment.

6. Don't pretend to have all the answers.
If an employee asks a question that you cannot answer, don’t try to fake it. No one will lose respect for you if you say, “I don’t know, let me get back to you.” On the other hand, if you give an answer that turns out to be false, you will lose respect and trust.

7. Use an evaluation form for consistency.
You'll want to have an organized and consistent process for evaluating employees. This makes the process fairer and can help your company avoid or defend against discrimination suits in the future.

8. Develop metrics for measuring performance throughout the year.
Having measurable goals helps employees know where they are, and helps you more accurately gauge performance.